Motivating Example: Building a Meal Plan with a Fusion of Food from Ethiopia and Uzbekistan that is Keto

I want you to think of ChatGPT and these large language models as tools that you can use to give your ideas form, to give your thoughts, realization. To be able to explore lots of different concepts and be able to refine them over interactions with the tool. I don't want you to think of these tools as something that you use to just write essays or answer questions that's really missing the capabilities of the tools. These are tools that really allow you to do fascinating things. Now I'm going to try to give you an example of this. To hopefully motivate you that these tools have immense capabilities and that those capabilities can allow you to do things that would be very difficult to do otherwise. What does a task that I thought of that would be something that we can all relate to. I thought about my family and I thought about this crazy idea. We have this great restaurant from Uzbekistan, that's in Nashville. We have a great restaurant from Ethiopia. We've actually got lots of great Ethiopian restaurants. I thought to myself, what would it look like to create a meal plan that was based on a fusion of cuisine from Uzbekistan and Ethiopia. What would that look like in the past, I've eaten keto, So could we try to make a keto? Because I still like to limit my carbs. At the end of the day, realistically, I'm going to have to buy all the ingredients for this, and they're not easily accessible at the grocery store down the street from me, I'm probably not going to cook the meals. I thought, well, let's go to ChatGPT and see if it can help us with this problem, if it can help us prototype what this meal plan might look like. I went to ChatGPT and I said, please create a meal plan for my family that is based on a fusion of food from Ethiopia and Uzbekistan. I want to eat keto and up to 2000 calories per day. Pick dishes where the ingredients are easy to get from an average US grocery store. Now this is a hard problem. I don't think that there's a human on the planet that can easily answer this question. If they are, I probably could not find them. It would probably cost me too much to hire them, and they certainly couldn't do this as fast as I'm about to get it done for me. I asked ChatGPT had to do this for me, and ChatGPT says, here's a sample meal-plan that combines flavors from Ethiopia and Uzbekistan while also being keto friendly and within a 2000 calorie per day limit, breakfast scrambled eggs with sauteed onions, tomatoes, and Ethiopian berbere spice. Now notice what it does. It puts in parentheses, it says made with chili powder, paprika, garlic powder, ginger, cumin, and coriander. Now what its signaling is, berbere spice is something you can get at the average US grocery store. All of these spices are easy to obtain from a normal US grocery store. Not only is it answering my question, it's giving me an Ethiopian breakfast dish. It's giving me information that I'm going to be able to get these spices. Now, I don't know enough about Ethiopian cuisine to know if this is a really accurate dish. It may not be, it may be inspired by it and very Americanized. But I'm still for me and what I'm trying to do this is pretty impressive. Then goes on to say lunch, Uzbek style lamb kebabs with grilled vegetables, bell peppers, zucchini, eggplant, and aside of cucumber and tomato salad dressed with olive oil and lemon juice. Now you notice all of this is pretty keto friendly too. Now some people could take issue with the onions, but it's a really good first start of giving this crazy idea I have form. Now, it may have errors in it, it may not be perfect, but I could go and work with this and refine it and start improving it. That's one of the things I want you to think about throughout this course is, don't think of this as a one-off. I give it a question. I look at the answer and I say it's good or bad, no. I went back to it and I thought, well, one of the things that I'm really missing from this is I don't know how much to eat. I said, Can you give me an approximate serving size for myself for each dish that is within my 2000 calorie limit. ChatGPT says sure here are approximate serving sizes for each dish based on a 2000 calorie per day limit. Breakfast scrambled eggs with sauteed onions, tomatoes and Ethiopian berbere spice mix. Then it hasn't parentheses two eggs, half a cup of onions, half a cup of tomatoes, one teaspoon of berbere spice mix served with a side of sliced avocado, 1/4 medium avocado. It goes on to give me now serving sizes for each of these different dishes. Now, again, I didn't go and I didn't take it into some calorie calculator and look at the macros and check if it really fit my diet. Because I was just fascinated about prototyping this idea, exploring this concept and I could keep refining it. I could keep looking and improving it, asking it to break down things really an analyzing and making sure it exactly fits what I'm looking for. But instead I want to do something different. I'm going to go and continue this thread of conversation, this crazy idea that I had and give it a little more form. What I thought about is if I was really going to take this crazy idea into my family, I'd have to think about my nine-year-old son. My wife and I are more adventurous eaters. But my nine-year-old, he's not always going to want to eat everything that we come up with. I thought, well, what can I do to help him get excited about trying these things out? I thought I can go back to ChatGPT and I try to get ChatGPT's help with this. I said ChatGPT, my son is nine, sometimes he won't try new dishes. To make this culinary adventure more fun for him, can you create a short Pokemon battle story to go with each dish? If you're not familiar with Pokemon, it's trading cards in a game and a cartoon my son loves it. I will read the stories with him before dinner to get him excited about trying the new food. Make sure the story ends with a cliff-hanger that will motivate him to try the new food. Now maybe I could find somebody who could give me a meal plan based on Uzbek cuisine and Ethiopian cuisine, but make it Quito and do all those things and look it up. I'm not sure they could do it anywhere near as fast. But now we're really moving into territory where it's going to be hard to find a single human being and to get somebody to do all of this is going to be expensive. I'm doing this in a matter of minutes. What is ChatGPT say? Certainly. Here are some short Pokemon battle stories to go with each dish. Then we had the breakfast dish with the Berbere spice. It says story, Pikachu and his friends were exploring the wilds of Ethiopia and they were suddenly ambushed by a group of sneaky Pokemon thieves. It goes on to have this Burberry dragon that they're battling. Then it says in the end, they emerge victorious, but not before the dragon left a fiery spice that imbued their breakfast eggs with a flavorful kick. Can you help Pikachu and his friends defeat the Berbere dragon and enjoy this spicy breakfast? That's pretty amazing. We've gone from a meal plan to now help my son get excited about eating this by mixing in some concept that he's really excited about and it's actually produced a cliff-hanger. Is this the best cliff-hanger? Maybe, maybe not. But does it matter? No, because I'm rapidly experimenting with my ideas. I'm trying to get my thought form. I'm trying to understand what this would look like and I could go and I could refine it and improve it further, but it's already done a pretty good job. I could probably take this and read it to my son and have him more excited about trying the dish. Then I thought, well, let's take this crazy idea further. We're going to be sitting at the dinner table. We're going to read these crazy stories that ChatGPT has generated for me to try to get my son excited about eating these dishes. I thought what else do we do at the dinner table that I could weave into this? I thought, well, one of the things we do is we talk about what my son is learning at school. One of the things he loves is learning math and play in math games. I thought, well, is there a way I can integrate that into this whole crazy idea? I said, ChatGPT I would like you to play a math game with my nine-year-old to teach him about division with fractions and nutrition. Ask him questions one at a time involving Pokemon in these topics and make it into a game when he wins the Pokemon win, ask the first question. ChatGPT says, great, let's play a fun math game involving Pokemon and nutrition. Question 1, Pikachu and his friends are planning a meal that includes half a cup of cooked rice, but they need to divide it evenly among three Pokemon. How much rice will each Pokemon get? It gives them a hint. It says, if you get stuck, feel free to ask me for more hints for guidance and what does it do? It then waits for my son to respond. We go and we type in the answer. We type in one-sixth. Now notice, before we were asking it questions, and now it's asked us a question. We've told it to create this math game. It's now asked me or my son a question. I'm typing in one-sixth as the answer. Now ChatGPT says, good job, that's correct. Each Pokemon will get one-sixth a cup of cooked rice. We got this answer by dividing one-half by three, which gives us, and it works out the math for us. We went from this crazy idea of a meal plan that's based on food from his Pakistan and Ethiopia. That's keto-friendly that I can get it at average grocery store with an added serving sizes or portions to it. We then took that and we got it to generate Pokemon battle stories with cliff-hanger that would help my son get excited about eating these dishes. Then I created a game, a math game based on nutrition and Pokemon to go along with this to make it even more fun. Then I thought, Well, what else can we do this? I mean, let's really give this thought some form at the end. We've gotten the meal plan, we've gotten the stories, we've got this game. Can we give the game real form? I use some of my domain knowledge as computer scientists to say, Let's create code for this. We're actually going to produce software for it. I said let's create code for this in Python, but I want it to be a web application and I'm not going to go through all the details because they are domain-specific. They use my knowledge of computer science. But the key thing is, is that ChatGPT then generates actual software, the code for software for this, I'm not going through all of it, but the important piece of it is when we get to the end of it, we actually have real working software that I can run on a computer to play this math game with my son. You can see that we took some simple idea and we rapidly prototyped it into all different forms. At any point in time, we could go and we could further refine one of the forms so we can take the meal plan that didn't have information about how much to eat and portions and we could add that into it. We could reshape it into a completely different form. We could then eventually get to the end and take some form that we had created and take it out of the language model and turn it into software. That capability of taking our ideas and rapidly iterating and prototyping with them, that's just one example of the type of thing that we can do with these large language modules like ChatGPT. Now, I hope this example helps to get you inspired about the capabilities of what you're going to learn to do within this course.